
Welcome to GNUWorld
------------------

****
The best and most comprehensive information for installing gnuworld, 
postgresql, and the cservice and ccontrol (uworld) modules can be found at 
http://www.gnuworld.org/gnuworld-setup.

The setup procedures listed here are generic, and do not provide any 
information for building databases for these two modules.
****

GNUWorld is an IRC services server.  This server hosts several
virtual client modules that perform IRC network and channel 
functions.

GNUWorld's homepage is located at http://gnuworld.sourceforge.net,
www.gnuworld.org, or gnuworld.undernet.org.  From these pages 
you may obtain the latest information about GNUWorld.

To use GNUWorld, you need a few of the basics:
	- An uplink IRC server.  Make sure the U lines are
	  set properly for the bots you wish for GNUWorld to 
	  host.
	- A machine to run GNUWorld.  Keep in mind that
	  GNUWorld uses as much bandwidth as any other IRC 
	  server on your network.
	- GNUWorld will also use quite a bit of RAM time, 
	  though not normally nearly as much as other IRC 
	  servers on your network.

The first step you need to take is to obtain a copy of GNUWorld.
GNUWorld is software distributed under the GPL.  A copy of the 
license is included with this distribution.

You can obtain GNUWorld through the above web site.  The
preferred method of getting a copy of GNUWorld is through CVS.  
Issue the following command to log into the anonymous CVS 
server:

cvs -d :pserver:anonymous@cvs.gnuworld.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/gnuworld
 login

When prompted for a password, hit the return key.

Next you need to check out a copy of the latest version of GNUWorld:

cvs -z3 -d :pserver:anonymous@cvs.gnuworld.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/gnuworld
 co gnuworld

(Execute the above command on a single line in your shell.)
This will create a directory under your current directory named 
"gnuworld" in which all of GNUWorld's files will be placed.

Installing GNUWorld
-------------------

If you used the CVS method above, you may proceed directly to the
Building GNUWorld section below.  Otherwise you downloaded a
tar gzipped copy of GNUWorld.

Unpack the archive as follows:

gzip -cd gnuworld.xxx.tar.gz | tar xf -

where xxx is the version of GNUWorld you have obtained.

Building GNUWorld
----------------

In order to build GNUWorld, you will need a compiler which
supports the ANSI C++ Standard.  GNUmake is also recommended 
(gmake).

Change into the gnuworld directory, and run the configuration script:

cd gnuworld
./configure

When you run configure, you may specify which clients to build.  Use
the --enable-modules option to specify a comma separated list of
modules to build (each client is now a dynamically loadable module).
Here is an example of how to configure for only the cservice client:

./configure --enable-modules=cservice

This example will build both the cservice and ccontrol (oper services)
modules:

./configure --enable-modules=cservice,ccontrol

Not specifying the --enable-modules option at all will build all
available modules.

If you should choose to build no modules at all (which isn't very
useful), you can give the "no" (without the quotes) argument to the 
--enable-modules option:

./configure --enable-modules=no

Note also that all of the usual configure options are supported, and
may be viewed by:

./configure --help

IMPORTANT: If your OS supports shared libraries, you can reduce
the compile time by half if you give configure these addional
options:

--enable-shared --disable-static

This will build the Makefiles that GNUWorld will use to compile
its source code.  Compile gnuworld with the command:

make

This command will build all of the libraries and binaries.
To install the binaries and library modules into ./bin/, type:

make install

Configuring GNUWorld
--------------------

Change into the bin directory:

cd bin

In here you will find several .conf files.  These are the files that
GNUWorld uses to configure itself and its bots.  The file
"GNUWorld.example.conf" contains sufficient information for 
GNUWorld to connect to an IRC uplink server located on the local
(127.0.0.1) machine.

In order to run any services clients, each of those modules must be
built and installed into the bin/ directory (see above).  To have a
client loaded, add a line like this to the .conf of your choice:

module = libcservice.la cservice.conf

The "module" keyword tells gnuworld to attempt to load the given
module.

NOTE: Individual modules may require additional configuration.
Such is the case with modules libcservice (channel service) and 
ccontrol (oper services).  Please read the README files in each 
of those modules' subdirectories for more information.

All modules will be built with a ".la" extension.  This is a
libtool archive.  LibTool is used to build dynamically
loadable modules on many architectures, including those
which do not support shared objects.  Therefore, your system
may require static archives to be built.  In either case,
libtool will figure out the proper build commands, and create a
".la" archive for each client which isb uilt.

The format of the configuration files should be fairly
straightforward.  GNUWorld also supports several command line 
options obtained by running the command:

gnuworld -h

Running GNUWorld
----------------

In order to run GNUWorld, all you need to pass it is the name of the
configuration file.  To have GNUWorld run and connect to the
IRC server located at localhost:6667, using the configuration 
file GNUWorld.example.conf, issue the following command:

gnuworld -f GNUWorld.example.conf

That's it!  You will now have GNUWorld running!

Should you have any problems, please email us at
gnuworld-devel@lists.sourceforge.net.  Don't forget to include
a print out of the compiler errors, if any, or the logs from the 
problem.  It helps to run GNUWorld in verbose mode using the -c 
command line option.  Please also include OS and compiler type 
and version.

You may also visit http://gnuworld.sourceforge.net to submit
an online bug report.

Thanks,

The GNUWorld Development Team
